  little over a year ago, Minister Cuci, you invited us here to launch the Territorial and Administrative reform of your country. Since then, political and legislative decisions have been taken to consolidate Albania’s 373 local government units into 61.

A milestone to create the basis for viable local government units is reached.

It was a complex, yet successful process which you led in an open, consultative, and timely manner. We commend you for that.

We are also glad to note that the expertise, the human and financial resources that were made available to this reform have supported you in reaching this milestone.

Mr. Minister, Colleagues,

Territorial and administrative reform is the necessary but not the sufficient base for the strategic objective around which we gathered a year ago:  A socially responsive, democratically inclusive, administratively functional local governance system which provides the services that Albanian men and women need and is accountable to them.  Such a local governance system is also critical for Albania’s European integration.

The new government units that will emerge from the consolidation are the basis for such a system of governance, if complemented with other reforms, notably decentralization, public administration, civil service and fiscal reforms as well as with innovations in services delivery.
We stand ready to support them, especially in their initial operations and in integrating with other reforms.  We hope also that more women will be encouraged to lead these new government units and serve in the new municipal councils.

The governments of Italy, Switzerland, the United States and Sweden provided financial and technical support to Albania’s administrative territorial reform effort through UNDP. Today, we mark the second tranche contributions of the Governments of USA, Switzerland and Sweden to this Project.

We  commend you for the effective results achieved so far in strengthening local governance in your country. We wish you success in the upcoming consolidation of local government units for a more effective, democratic governance system for the men and women of Albania.
